

1. Figure out how end to end authentication works


2. Figure out how end to end authorization works



3. Data plane connector schema

S3, Parquet Materialization

Query Federation on the fly




Connector SDK Design


Connector Interface


What is the role of parser and how does it interact with the connector interface

Query parser parses the query, figures out the connectors and pushes down the individual 
connector queries to each connector, aggregate results and then return the result. 






What is the data plane


Authentication,

Rate Limit Check ( already delegated)

Query Parsing ( might be CPU intensive ??? need to check )


Connector Service ()  ( connector metadata caching)

 rate limit per connector,
 no of tables per connector
 auth token per connector->

 Dedicated Connection Pools per connector

Golang Service is there -> hence threads hanging for a slow connector should not be a problem here

We can potentially have connector tiering going forward (if its justified)
Need to properly discuss how do we prevent one connector hogging resources

connection level isolation
bulk heading level isolation
What about memory -> (how do we protect memory), Can we have memory level isolation. What if some connector
brings very large payloads in memory which creates noisy neighbour problems.

I do think some sort of connector level service url can be eventually created and all sort of caching the data
and the S3 Access and parquet files can be pushed down here.


How do we handle the async path of the query here ->


Kubernetes pod registry. What I think is we can have a connector registry, where admins can possibly configure what is the compute size of each connector
, what is the URL of each connector . What is the memory config of each connector and so on.

and hence being able to scale. We will all the metrics on a connector level, everything is schedule in a kubernetes pod I guess.
The kubernetes pod tenant framework should be able to handle this, and whenever i make a change in the core connector frame work
this should be able to deploy to all the available connector kube pod group.


We are not going to have isolation at the connector, tenant Id level as at that level the design simply explodes.

Do we hve thread pool and connection pool at the tenant level ? I think so that should be possible. That is another configuration in the
control plane. Although this is go service so threads should not be an issue, but possibly we can have a compute defined
basis of the throughput which is allowed for the each tenant for a connector. Some tenants which have bigger connector quota will have
bigger thread pools. We will have the pod size basis the largets tenant connector config.


Now coming to the data storage in the data plane->

We have a redis which will store the query cache (with lesser predicates)

This redis will be shared by the connectors and the data plane


Now it comes to how does the query planner work with connectors _.

Lets talk about the normal case where the no of results are less only. This is the most critical part ->

Each of the connector shares the results and the query planner applies the filter, RLS and TLS criteria.
Possibly RLS and TLS if possibly can be pushed to the connector itself (wherever possible I guess)

On thinking again pushing down to the connector we might not do, is because we dont want to keep the same connector code
at two places. So we will absort the one more layer of network transfer at the cost of keeping the filter code at the same level ? 


What about the cases where we need a parquet storage ? So i guess connector will write the parquet or to the S3
Ultimately, what will happen is the query planner will run whatever is required compute the results

and this can be potentially served via an async path or sync path based on the no of results

if the result size is too big we possibly need a S3 link. The clients can be served via a S3 file
If the result size is smaller it can be stored in a blob / cache ? And served to the clients.





